
=head1 DESCRIPTION

CMS_add0_cert() and CMS_add1_cert() add certificate I<cert> to I<cms>.
I<cms> must be of type signed data or (authenticated) enveloped data.
For signed data, such a certificate can be used when signing or verifying
to fill in the signer certificate or to provide an extra CA certificate
that may be needed for chain building in certificate validation.

CMS_get1_certs() returns all certificates in I<cms>.

CMS_add0_crl() and CMS_add1_crl() add CRL I<crl> to I<cms>.
I<cms> must be of type signed data or (authenticated) enveloped data.
For signed data, such a CRL may be used in certificate validation.
It may be given both for inclusion when signing a CMS message
and when verifying a signed CMS message.

CMS_get1_crls() returns all CRLs in I<cms>.

=head1 NOTES

The CMS_ContentInfo structure I<cms> must be of type signed data or enveloped
data or an error will be returned.

For signed data certificates and CRLs are added to the I<certificates> and
I<crls> fields of SignedData structure. For enveloped data they are added to
B<OriginatorInfo>.

As the I<0> implies CMS_add0_cert() adds I<cert> internally to I<cms> and it
must not be freed up after the call as opposed to CMS_add1_cert() where I<cert>
must be freed up.

The same certificate or CRL must not be added to the same cms structure more
than once.

CMS_get1_certs() and CMS_get1_crls() return the STACK of certificates or CRLs
or NULL if there are none or an error occurs. The only error which will occur
in practice is if the I<cms> type is invalid.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>,

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at