 const EC_GROUP *EC_KEY_get0_group(const EC_KEY *key);
 int EC_KEY_set_group(EC_KEY *key, const EC_GROUP *group);
 const BIGNUM *EC_KEY_get0_private_key(const EC_KEY *key);
 int EC_KEY_set_private_key(EC_KEY *key, const BIGNUM *prv);
 const EC_POINT *EC_KEY_get0_public_key(const EC_KEY *key);
 int EC_KEY_set_public_key(EC_KEY *key, const EC_POINT *pub);
 point_conversion_form_t EC_KEY_get_conv_form(const EC_KEY *key);
 void EC_KEY_set_conv_form(EC_KEY *eckey, point_conversion_form_t cform);
The functions EC_KEY_get0_group(), EC_KEY_set_group(),
EC_KEY_get0_private_key(), EC_KEY_set_private_key(), EC_KEY_get0_public_key(),
and EC_KEY_set_public_key() get and set the EC_GROUP object, the private key,
and the EC_POINT public key for the I<key> respectively.

The functions EC_KEY_get_conv_form() and EC_KEY_set_conv_form() get and set the
point_conversion_form for the I<key>. For a description of
point_conversion_forms please see L<EC_POINT_new(3)>.

EC_KEY_get0_engine() returns a pointer to an ENGINE, or NULL if it wasn't set.

EC_KEY_up_ref(), EC_KEY_set_group(), EC_KEY_set_private_key(),
EC_KEY_set_public_key(), EC_KEY_precompute_mult(), EC_KEY_generate_key(),
EC_KEY_check_key(), EC_KEY_set_public_key_affine_coordinates(),
EC_KEY_oct2key() and EC_KEY_oct2priv() return 1 on success or 0 on error.

EC_KEY_get0_group() returns the EC_GROUP associated with the EC_KEY.

EC_KEY_get0_private_key() returns the private key associated with the EC_KEY.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at