A value <= 0 indicates that
the B<OSSL_HTTP_DEFAULT_MAX_LINE_LEN> of 4KiB should be used.
I<buf_size> is also used as the number of content bytes that are read at a time.
The allocated context structure includes an internal memory B<BIO>,
which collects the HTTP request header lines.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_free() frees up the HTTP request context I<rctx>.
The I<rbio> is not free'd, I<wbio> will be free'd if I<free_wbio> is set.

I<path> is the HTTP request path; if left NULL, C</> is used.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_add1_header() adds header I<name> with value I<value> to the
context I<rctx>. It can be called more than once to add multiple header lines.
For example, to add a C<Host> header for C<example.com> you would call:

 OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_add1_header(ctx, "Host", "example.com");

expected as the response content and input streaming is disabled.  This means
that an ASN.1 sequence header is required, its length field is checked, and
OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get0_mem_bio() should be used to get the buffered response.
Otherwise (by default) any input format is allowed without length checks.
In this case the BIO given as I<rbio> argument to OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_new() should
be used directly to read the response contents, which may support streaming.
If the I<timeout> parameter is > 0 this indicates the maximum number of seconds
the subsequent HTTP transfer (sending the request and receiving a response)
I<content_type> must be NULL if I<req> is NULL.
If I<content_type> isn't NULL,
the HTTP header C<Content-Type> is also added with the given string value.
The header lines are added to the internal memory B<BIO> for the request header.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_nbio() attempts to send the request prepared in I<rctx>
and to gather the response via HTTP, using the I<wbio> and I<rbio>
that were given when calling OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_new().
If an ASN.1-encoded response was expected, this is the BIO
returned by OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get0_mem_bio() when called after the exchange.
This memory BIO does not support streaming.
Otherwise the returned BIO is the I<rbio> given to OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_new(),
which may support streaming.
When this BIO is returned, it has been read past the end of the response header,
such that the actual response body can be read from it.
The returned BIO pointer MUST NOT be freed by the caller.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get0_mem_bio() returns the internal memory B<BIO>.
Before the HTTP request is sent, this could be used to adapt its header lines.
I<Use with caution!>
After receiving a response via HTTP, the BIO represents the current state of
reading the response header. If the response was expected to be ASN.1 encoded,
its contents can be read via this BIO, which does not support streaming.
The returned BIO pointer must not be freed by the caller.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get_resp_len() returns the size of the response contents

=item 2.

Adding extra header lines with OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_add1_header().
This is optional and may be done multiple times with different names.

=item 3.

return 1 for success, 0 on error or redirection, -1 if retry is needed.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_exchange() and OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get0_mem_bio()
return a pointer to a B<BIO> on success as described above or NULL on failure.
The returned BIO must not be freed by the caller.

OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_get_resp_len() returns the size of the response contents
or 0 if not available or an error occurred.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at