whereby it may make use of a custom defined argument I<arg>,
which may for instance point to an B<SSL_CTX> structure.
During connection establishment, just after calling BIO_do_connect_retry(), the
callback function is invoked with the I<connect> argument being 1 and
I<detail> being 1 if I<use_ssl> is nonzero (i.e., HTTPS is requested), else 0.
On disconnect I<connect> is 0 and I<detail> is 1 if no error occurred, else 0.
For instance, on connect the callback may push an SSL BIO to implement HTTPS;
after disconnect it may do some diagnostic output and pop and free the SSL BIO.

the length indications received are checked for consistency
and for not exceeding any given maximum response length.
If an ASN.1-encoded response is expected, the function returns on success
the contents buffered in a memory BIO, which does not support streaming.
Otherwise it returns directly the read BIO that holds the response contents,
which allows a response of indefinite length and may support streaming.
The caller is responsible for freeing the BIO pointer obtained.

return 1 on success, 0 on error.

On success, OSSL_HTTP_exchange(), OSSL_HTTP_get(), and OSSL_HTTP_transfer()
return a memory BIO that buffers all the data received if an ASN.1-encoded
response is expected, otherwise a BIO that may support streaming.
The BIO must be freed by the caller.
On failure, they return NULL.
Failure conditions include connection/transfer timeout, parse errors, etc.
The caller is responsible for freeing the BIO pointer obtained.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at